Let's keep it moving.
Now what I want to talk about is
a little bit performance stuff.
I want to talk about blocking code and
how dangerous this is in Express.
So now that you all are pretty much good
at writing APIs and Express at this point.
I'm gonna show you how to be great
at writing APIs and Express.
And not have to make rookie mistakes.
So, there's something called blocking code
and something called non blocking code.
This actually has nothing
to do with Express but
everything to do with JavaScript,
let's talk about that.
So, I'm going to write my little
test file that always do.
I'm gonna call this blocking.js,
this is just me
scribbling on some code you
don't have to follow here.
So let's talk about some blocking code,
what is blocking?
Blocking code is like this,
this is blocking code.
All right,
this code is blocking as JavaScript won't
go to this next line until
this first line has completed.
This is not an issue because creating
a variable is quick, it's easy.
Java is not gonna struggle
with creating a variable.
But if your blocking code was I
don't know, CPU intensive like some
heavy math calculation like Fibonacci or
something like that.
If Javas gonna have to wait on
that to go to the next line.
Maybe it's also not a problem
because nothing else is waiting on.
Nothing else is in line to be processed,
so maybe it's also not a big deal.
But not take that concept and
apply it to a server, okay?
You have some route that's
running a Fibonacci.
That's gonna take, I don't know,
30 seconds plus on your MacBook.
In the meantime,
you have 100 other requests coming in.
How is JavaScript gonna process those
requests when it's too busy running your
Fibonacci.
Okay, now it's a problem.
So blocking code can become
a problem in the context of having
routes where you want to be able to handle
as many requests per second as possible.
But now you can't because that
one request is taking too long.
That's called blocking.
So you don't wanna write blocking code.
So, how do you write non blocking code?
There's really only two ways in
JavaScript, or at least a node.
One is to make it async, right?
The way asynchronous code works, is that
it's scheduled to be done later, right?
It's not gonna happen on the current
stack, it happens on a different stack.
So if you could think about, well, what
if someone made a request to an API and
that brand Fibonacci.
But it ran an asynchronous version of
Fibonacci that is happening over here and
is scheduled to complete later.
Well, then JavaScript can continue
to ingest more requests and
move forward with things.
So you basically just wanna
make sure you're not doing CPU,
intensive things synchronously.
All right, and
we might be guilty of some of that.
Let me see if we did anything synchronous.
If we did, it would be the bcrypt stuff.
Okay, now this is async.
If we did the sync version of this,
this could be blocking.
I mean, this also isn't gonna take long,
but it's still blocking.
I don't know, maybe bcrypt decides it
wants, it takes ten seconds today.
Within that ten seconds,
you had 20,000 requests come in.
They're probably not gonna get processed.
Or if so they'll get really processed very
slow, they won't just get blocked but
they'll have to wait until this is done.
Eventually you will run out of memory
where you can't hold on to all
those be processing some requests will get
dropped if you're doing something crazy.
So you wanna always use
the synchronous version of things.
And I would say a common one that I see
people do all the time is file system
stuff.
They always do file, they wanna read the
file system, they do the file system sync.
I have an example of it here.
Do something like this right and
actually let's just run it,
let me show what I'm talking about.
So if I import file system,
I had to use require online.
So, FS equals require a first.
So if I import the file system's
gonna read the package.json,
Which will be like process that.
I gotta do a whole thing, I forgot.
I haven't done this in so long.
It'll be like path.join, process or
it'll be their name, something like that.
And then like, package.json.
Okay, and then I can get the result.
I think I haven't done that in so long.
Let's find out.
I'll call that blocking.
Okay, so there we go, we got this
is a buffer version of the file but
that's the file, system buffer firm or
you can convert that to
a string if you want to, UTFA.
There we go.
So there's a package.json.
That's blocking because check this out.
This results didn't log or actually,
just doesn't make it more clear,
I'll put another log here.
Hi, if I put hi here.
Actually this one, log first.
I guess that's not blocking.
[LAUGH] I don't know why they
didn't block, no way, I'm sorry.
No, it did, I just had the result
come after, I'm stupid.
No, it definitely did block.
This is the result is logging after hi.
So let me kind of switch that up there.
But yeah,
that's blocking because this didn't
actually log until this
was already processed.
And we know it was already processed
because the result printed out and
then high logged.
Which means hi this log for hi wasn't able
to be processed until all this was done.
And this was just a simple package.json.
I don't know, imagine open up a CSV,
a gigabyte CSV.
[LAUGH] And then tried to take in
more processes, it wouldn't work.
Okay, so what you would wanna do,
is you would make this async.
So I can say,
give me the promises version.
And I want this to be, async.
So I would say, read async,
like this, I can go in here like that.
And then I can say, read,
right, so now it's not blocking.
So if I say, that it's a promise,
we didn't wait for it to come back.
It just gave me back a promise that it
will come back, but in the meantime,
it went on to hi, right?
And then, whenever I want,
I can resolve that promise.
I didn't return anything criminal.
I don't know why they didn't
let me do the promise thing,
maybe it's not [LAUGH] a promise thing,
let's see, okay, there we go.
I just didn't like the way that
I did the non chanting syntax.
So by using the promise version of it,
we can basically not
have to wait until that's done and
we can just proceed on.
So, basically using the async
stuff is the way you wanna go.
You don't wanna be using synchronous
stuff inside a route handlers for
CPU intensive things.
That doesn't mean every line that you
write has to be inside of a promise.
It's just like CPU intensive things,
if you think of an algorithm that
is linear or quadratic in nature.
Or I guess pretty much anything that's
probably gonna be slower than linear.
And then it potentially has
ability to have a hi input.
Yeah, you probably just
wanna be careful with that.
This is not JavaScript, a cup of tea,
JavaScript is not a multi threaded, or
node is in a multi threaded environment,
a single threaded environment
only uses one of the threads.
So your CPU by default,
you can tap into the other ones.
But by default, no.
So that's one way.
The other way is to use a child process.
So not sure if you ever heard of a child
process but a child process is basically,
kinda like a web worker in the browser.
It's actually literally the same thing.
So you can spin up a different process
adjacent to this process in which your
servers running in and you can tell
that process to go do this work.
And that won't block the current process.
But you only can do so many child process,
infinite amount of those.
You can throw money at your server and
get more cores.
But eventually you can't do all those,
right?
So those are more for CPU intensive
things that you have control over and
not something that
a user has control over.
A user can use your API over and over and
over, really kicks off the child process.
You probably don't hit
a limit really quick.
But this is like, this is a cron
job that I run twice a day and
I need to do it in the background.
Yeah, that makes sense because that
most is gonna happen twice a day.
So yeah, you could do that.
But those are really the two ways
you wanna get past blocking code.
So don't block code use promises.
Next time one of your colleagues
submitted a pull request,
tell them stop blocking the code.